## Race/Ethnicity - Hispanic/Latino
Percentage of population self-identified as Hispanic or Latino

### Why is this important?
Diversity augments civic vitality, brings new skills and perspectives to a community, and strengthens global economic connections. But highly diverse communities often require intentional community-building efforts to achieve a whole greater than the sum of its parts. In addition to supporting diversity, information on race/ethnicity is required for many Federal programs and is critical in making policy decisions, particularly for civil rights. Race/ethnicity data are also used to promote equal employment opportunities and to assess racial disparities in health, income, education, and criminal justice.

#### How are we doing?
As of 2017, 53% of Mecklenburg County residents were people of color, compared to just 28% of the population in 1980. Countywide as of 2017, 47.8% of people were White/Caucasian, 30.7% Black/African American, 12.9% Hispanic/Latino, 5.5% Asian, and 3% All Other Races.

Note: In order to make equal comparisons to the smaller areas, the values for Mecklenburg County, North Carolina and the United States in the previous paragraph are also from the American Community Survey 2013-2017 5-Year estimates. While more current 1-year estimates are available for the larger areas, it is important to use the most precise and most comparable 5-year estimates. [Click here]( http://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/estimates.html/) to learn more on the difference between 1-and 5-year estimates.

#### Did you know?
Throughout the United States, population growth is expected to be driven by immigrants and their descendants. Charlotte is an emerging immigrant gateway city, with 14% of the population born outside the United States as of 2014. Countries with large immigrant populations in Mecklenburg County include Mexico (19%), India (10%), Philippines (4.5%), China (2.6%), Vietnam (4.5%) and El Salvador (6.4%). 

#### Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm2'">Age of Residents</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm18'">Race/Ethnicity - Hispanic or Latino</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm16'">Race/Ethnicity - Asian</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm17'">Race/Ethnicity - All Other Races</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm14'">Race/Ethnicity - White or Caucasian</a>  

### About the Data
Population self-identified as Hispanic/Latino, divided by the total population. 

The Census asks respondents to indicate their Hispanic heritage and race separately. To create mutually-exclusive race/ethnicity categories, individuals of all races who reported being of Hispanic/Latino/a origins are identified as Hispanic/Latino, and all other non-Hispanic/Latino/a persons are identified by their race selection. 

Note: Data for the year 2000 were calculated by the Minnesota Population Center by reaggregating and interpolating data from the 2000 census block to 2010 census block group, the base geography of the NPA.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. Decennial Census: Summary File 1, QT-P3; Minnesota Population Center, National Historical Geographic Information System_U.S. Census Bureau. American Community Survey <span tabindex="1000" class="meta-definition" data-toggle="popover" data-title="Why 2013-2017 not 2017?" data-content="Data labeled 2013-2017 describe average conditions reported through the American Community Survey (ACS) during the period of January 2013 through December 2017. The Census collects ACS data from only a small sample of households every month. For reliable small-area estimates, the Census compiles five years of ACS data, which are used in the Quality of Life Explorer.">2013-2017</span>, 5-Year Estimates: Table B03002_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Charlotte is an Immigrant Gateway City](http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2015/12/01-metropolitan-immigrant-gateways-revisited-singer)| View a new Brookings Institute report that names Charlotte an immigrant gateway city.
|[Neighborhood Resources](http://charlottenc.gov/HNS/CE/CommunityInfo/Pages/default.aspx)|Get to know one another, celebrate diversity, and plan for a changing future with grant programs and board retreats available to Charlotte neighborhoods.
|[Charlotte Region Diversity](https://ui.uncc.edu/story/latino-population-nc-sc-charlotte-region-acs)|Analysis of the growing diversity in the Charlotte region from the The UNC Charlotte Urban Institute.
|[Community Building Initiative](http://cbicharlotte.org/)|Nonprofit organization dedicated to racial and ethnic inclusion and equity in Charlotte-Mecklenburg.